The idea is that we can set these
styles directly in the theme.
So what we do have available
as some kind of, let's say for
now global object within composable.
It's something known as material theme.
Material theme will let you access for a
couple of things, such as color shapes and
typography, and in typography,
we have these options.
So, I can say that this is h5 and
this is h4 chance to play with
this MaterialTheme.typography.
It's always called MaterialTheme.
And then you can go to
the preview file and customize.
What's h6 or h5 for you.
In fact, let me swap this.
So that's the default behavior
in terms of FontSize,
FontFamily, FontWeight of h5 and h6.
Does it make sense?
So the idea is that we can go and use
all the semantic styles in the theme and
try to keep working there
instead of hard coding.
Text directly in each text declaration,
okay?
Does it make sense?
So, let's say that here,
I wanna add some padding.
So actually, as we, so
before we need to add to the function,
call another argument, modifier.
And we're going to add a padding modifier.
Typically, we are going to use
a lot multipliers of eight,
in material design like 8,
16 paddings, but it's up to you.
Do you remember how to get rid of that red
finger, they have there, I have a red.
Never.
I need to import.
So Alt Enter or
option return on the Mac import.
So that's my modifier for the text.
If I want the same for the other one.
I need to add the modifier here,
padding, (16 dp).
So now we will see it's
getting better in that way.
Maybe you're thinking,
maybe to be in terms of the font size.
Be careful here, because
the preview has its own zoom level,
that might not be the default
zoom level in the real form.
So, for
that you have the one one icon there.
Okay, that will actually show you exactly
how it will look like in inches or
centimeters in your screen.
Okay, so if you wanna see if it's
too big or not go to one one, okay?
Because that's this is not
actually the size of a real phone.
What if I want to see the preview
in the size of real phone?
Well, first we have different phones,
okay?
But let's say that on Android in average,
we can say that a normal
width it's around 400 dp.
So if I say this now you will see
roughly how this will look like
in a hairbrush of a real Android device,
of course we have wider devices,
a narrower device.
So it depends on the device but at least
we have an idea of how it will look like.
Okay, that's it makes sense?
So when a while if you
want this to be center.
So if you want to center if you want to
align the elements, how did he sign word?
What actually in this case we shouldn't
work with the container, the column.
The column is another function, right?
So that means that it
receives its own modifiers.
Okay, so I can have for example,
padding to the whole column as well.
I'm not sure if I'm going to
keep this one but for now,
let's say just to show you that
you can also apply buttons here.
You typically can apply the same modifiers
to all the built in composables.
If you're making your own
composable it's up to you actually,
if you allow the consumer of your
composable to modify or not the rendering.
And column has another property.
It's called horizontal alignment.
And for the alignment,
we have a couple of options.
For example, I can say center or
center horizontally.
But if you look here, it says Rev,
it cannot find a parameter without name.
Its Rev, and
also I have an something here.
So what's going on with this?
So why sometimes you will find,
first I have a typo, so
let's solve the problem like that, okay?
But sometimes you will find that
there are some properties in red or
some arguments in red and
you don't know what's going on.
Sometimes it's because
there is a missing import.
And at this point is finished
where that an argument in
a function needs an import, okay?
Does it make sense?.
Well, that's because that import,
it's adding another,
let's say another version of that
function with your arguments.
Okay, so
you're going to see these a lot, okay?
Anyway, we'll refresh and now it's center.
Okay, so we're kind of getting there,
what about colors?
Okay, well I can change
typically colors the background
colour because it has
to do with the layout.
The background color is
typically a modifier.
So for example if I wanna change
the background color of my text It's
a modifier.
They remember how to apply to
modifiers to the same composable?
Chaining.
Chaining, so after the padding or
before it depends on what I want.
I need to add another dot.
Okay, and typically we do this.
We go to a new line, okay, like so and
then we can apply the background color.
For now I'm going to
just use any color and
then we're going to work with
real colors for our project.
So, Build & Refresh.
That's how my app looks like but
now I need some separation, right,
between the title and the description.
Well, for
that there are two things I can do.
I can add another padding.
Can you add padding only,
like bottom padding?
Actually, you can apply,
there are several versions of padding.
One value for all two values
the first one for horizontal,
the second one for
vertical or four values.
Be careful if you came from CSS,
when you're in CSS when you declare
four values the first one is stop and
then he goes clockwise.
Here it goes clockwise but
the first one is left that.
Now, that here is going to start.
So it's different anyway.
The other way that you have is there
is a composer will known as a spacer.
The spacer needs a modifier.
Well, first let's import the spacer.
So Alt Enter, import and
there is a modifier for
size or for width, over height.
So we have one full size where
we can express width and
height or just the height.
So I in DPS, so
I can actually say I want 16 dp.
So this is actually, so what's the
difference between using a margin here?
I'm not touching.
I'm not modifying the text
composables just for
that margin that I want in between.
There is some special composer for
that known as a spacer.
Okay, that's it make sense?
It's up to you.
Which option do you wanna use, okay?
If I want for example, the title
to be bold and so I'm one I like,
override the style.
It's font weight.
Some times the ad gets a little weird.
It's FontWeight.Bold for
example, something like that.
So now my title shall be bold.
Okay, it works.
Okay, so at this point,
I think that you get the idea on how
to start designing quickly your app.
So let's start adding some new
stuff first, regarding colors.
So we are going to create a real app.
So I already have some color for you.
So we didn't here in
the companion website.
There is a section setting
up theme colors, okay?
Where I have some color to copy and paste.
So I'm going to do this, again,
I'm in the companion website.
So and these are colors that I have
already defined where to put these colors.
Sorry, under Studio.
You go to Color Kotlin file in your theme.
And we add these colors.
You have a nice color preview there.
And if you click there, you can also
change the color with the color picker.
If you pay attention to
the color of declaration,
it's RGB with asteroids.
So this is actually instead of,
if you have a color like this
one, In the color that you're used to.
Here it's, first,
instead of the pound, we use 0x.
0x and the number because it's actually
a long, it's an a long integer, okay?
And also, we need to be very
careful here because this is ARGV.
Is not RGV, a for alpha.
And because it is an integer,
if you don't provide the alpha,
so the upper number,
actually alpha will be 0.
Alpha 0, it fully transparent,
so you won't see the color.
That's why, if you don't want that,
you start with FF.
So you take the normal color that you're
used to and you prefix that with 0x FF.
Does that make sense?
And then RGV.
Yeah, so be careful with that.
So the searchers color Global
variables that we are creating.
But if we want we can also go to
the theme declaration and select for
the dark theme and the light thing,
which colors do we want to use?
So then, several composer levels will take
the color from the theme automatically.
In our compose ours we can use the color
names that I have just selected.
But if I want the buttons and
many other composables to
use these colors automatically,
I can just use them here.
So for example, I can say that my
primary color is not purple 500.
It's the primary color
that I selected here.
I can change the name,
it can be any name, okay?
So then I go to the theme,
I say this is the color I want.
For a variant, I want the secondary color.
Well, actually, there is a secondary here.
We'll choose the secondary here,
of course you can change this and
we have an alternative version.
These are just variables
that I have created.
Makes sense?
This is like doing CSS variables
if you want with your colors.
So we can set colors at the app
level in the color Kotlin file.
And then we can go to the theme and
set your theme.
Hey theme, I want your primary
color to be that color.
When you are using these colors,
you have two options later.
You can take the color from the theme or
take the color directly
as a global variable.
What's the advantage of using
the theme that we have two sets for
dark and light mode?
So then based on that,
it will take the right color and
if you are using the global color, it's
just that color and always that color,
doesn't make sense, I'm saying?
So if you wanna support dark theme,
then you have to use the theme colors and
not directly the colors that
you create a global variables.
So meaning that going back to my offer,
instead of using this color that we have.
We can use any of my the colors that I
have like Alternative1, Alternative2.
So, background Alternative1, Alternative2,
and I will take that color,
its way for it.
See render problem.
So sometimes we can go to the build
menu and select clean project.
Sometimes it's necessary.
They come back here.
By the way, let's use the same
color on both alternative 1.
And now it's taking my color.
So what happened?
No one knows, that it's actually something
in the cache of Android Studio because
there are so many components here working,
that sometimes the cache messed up.
And you need to go to Bill and
clean the pressure.
It's necessary.
So you need to turn off and
turn on again, yeah.
Max, how did the alternative 1,
how did that get to the theme?
Actually, right now,
I'm not using the theme.
So, if you look at my code right now, I'm
actually accessing alternative 1 directly.
If you wanna use the theme,
you need to use material theme and
then access the colors.
And here you have all the colors
define in the material theme.
But how did that alternative
1 get associated?
You need to go, if you wanna associate
one of those you go to the theme.
Or you make a manual.
A manual you say okay,
for the dark color and
here you have some options like,
where are the options?
Well, if you look at these dark colors,
the light colors, declaration,
you see they're all
the possibilities that you have.
For the surface, for the primary.
These are just variable names that
someone said on the material design.
But so you can use
the the color from the theme or
you can use your own colors directly.
It's just funny that it
says private [LAUGH].
Yeah, this variable is private.
Okay, the variable, DarkColorPalette
because they want you to get this
color from the theme and the theme will
pick dark or light based on the context.
They don't want you to take
the color from there directly,
they want you to ask the theme for
the color that's why it's private.
Okay, that's make sense?
Cool, well.
You don't have to defy,
you can have like a system,
you usually want to find your own maybe
right but, there's a system like.
If you wanna use the system colors?
Yeah, it's fine.
So I think I have
a missing something here.
Yeah, because I have
a dot here doing nothing.
So let me go back to alternative 1.
I think alternative 2 is
a little brighter, lighter.
So it will work better with black,
like so.